   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-W958XX3

   Thursday January 05, 2023 / 12 , Jumada al-akhirah , 1444
   Header Logo
   Leading The Way
   search-icon
   Footer Header
   (BUTTON)
   search-icon
   ____________________
   SG
   Saudi Arabia
   Opinion
   Discover Saudi
   World
   Sports
   Business
   Technology
   Life
   ____________________
   search-logo

What kind of woman are you: A housewife or a career woman?

Why do women leave their children and go to work? Some women decide to work
for financial reasons, some to escape from home, some to relieve their
stress, etc.

   February 12, 2015
   What kind of woman are you: A housewife or a career woman?
   Follow Saudigazette on Google News Account




   Why do women leave their children and go to work? Some women decide to
   work for financial reasons, some to escape from home, some to relieve
   their stress, etc.

   However, some of those in the older generation believe that women
   should not work and that they should instead be homemakers. Yet a few
   do believe that women should work so that the family can benefit in
   many ways. To begin with, having a working mother in the family will
   help the family financially. A working woman has her own career
   aspirations and her own set of responsibilities. But for a housewife,
   life starts and ends with her husband, children and her own family

   There are both advantages and disadvantages to being a working woman
   just as there are to being a housewife. Working women have to leave
   their children in the care of a housemaid or someone else. However, you
   cannot trust housemaids, as they cannot give the care which only a
   mother can give.

   I asked a few women about how they feel about being a housewife or a
   working woman in Saudi Arabia. Their opinions are as follows:

   Ayesha, an Indian housewife, said: “I am an educated housewife. After
   returning from school, my  children are very happy when they find me at
   home. They have so much to talk about.  A housewife can help her
   children with their homework, and who says that housewives are not
   contributing to the family financially? They save the cost of a
   housemaid and of private tuition as well. This is a major contribution.
   Moreover, the joy on my child’s face is enough of a reward for me!”

   Fatima Khan, a Pakistani, said: “As a working woman, I know how painful
   it is to leave your children at home and go to work. I sometimes wish I
   could stay home but that is not possible because I want to give my
   child a better life and a better education. Housewives also contribute
   a lot to their family. It’s not an easy task to sacrifice your career
   and stay home to cook and look after your children. I feel that working
   at home is more difficult than working in an office.”

   Anna, who is from the Philippines, said: “I am a graduate and I was
   working before my marriage. After I moved to Saudi Arabia, I realized
   how good it would be to know that for someone, you are everything. When
   you come back from the office, you get the proper attention and care
   that you aspire to. Your children are given proper personal care and
   attention, which is very important as it makes the bond between parents
   and children stronger. My children are teenagers and I must spend time
   with them in order to make them feel secure and to keep them away from
   negative thoughts.”


   A Saudi woman said: “Men have been given the Islamic responsibility of
   providing for women, who are by default financially dependent on
   father, husband or brother. In earlier days, women enjoyed the luxury
   of being at home, cooking, watching TV, reading newspapers and doing
   housework. Now women wish to work and earn for themselves. However,
   they should try to maintain a balance between work and family.

   “If a woman fears God, she will not allow her work to affect her
   Islamic obligations, such as offering the daily five prayers on time,
   fasting during Ramadan, gaining Islamic knowledge, reciting the Holy
   Qur’an and wearing the hijab. So in my opinion, a women can work but
   her family and responsibility should be of prime importance.”

   Heena Syed, a Sri Lankan, said: “In today’s world, the salary of both
   the husband and the wife are required in order to have a good home, a
   good car and a good bank balance for the children’s future. The work of
   both parents is essential for the progress of the family. Being with
   her husband and children 24 hours a day does not mean that a woman is
   the perfect mother.  A working woman understands the value of work.
   Unlike a housewife, she never blames her husband for being late from
   the office. Working women often find some fulfillment in their jobs,
   apart from home. Hence, they may have better life satisfaction and feel
   less dependent on their husbands. This in turn can lead to more harmony
   in the family.”

   Sana Obaid, a Saudi, said: “I work as a teacher and I feel that my kids
   are financially secure. They can join extra coaching programs and
   enroll in activities as per their wish. I spend my weekends fully with
   my kids and husband so I personally feel that being a working women
   does not affect my family.”

   Jabida, an Indian, said: “I want to say that I disagree with the idea
   that housewives are less educated. I have worked when I needed to.
   Right now I can stay at home and I love it. I teach my daughter the
   alphabet, numbers, colors, shapes, etc. We go outside and do various
   activities, such as cooking, cleaning and the list goes on. I also help
   my husband by working on a few computer programs. In this way I am
   content.”

   Mohamed Hasan, an Indian student, said: “I feel the choice should be
   given to the lady.  If she wishes to work, if she is confident that she
   can handle both working and her family obligations and if her spouse
   and family are willing to support her, then she can have a career.  It
   does lead to fulfillment.  And with changing times, a lady can also
   work from home, part time, or with flexible hours.  So let her choose
   whether she wants to have a career or wants to be a housewife.”

   So to conclude, I would like to share the example of Hazrat Khadija
   (may Allah be pleased with her) who was the wife of our beloved Prophet
   (peace be upon him). She was one of the most successful businesswomen
   of her times and she conducted transactions through her husband,
   Prophet Muhammad (pbuh).

   A woman in Islam is given financial security. Many women still tend to
   be housewives in Saudi Arabia, while others want to work for their own
   reasons. I think both of these choices are acceptable. It depends on
   your own attitude toward life.

   Shafeeka Basheer,
   Dammam

   < Previous PageNext Page >
   [messenger-icon.svg] [email-icon.svg] [viber-icon.svg]
   February 12, 2015
   HIGHLIGHTS
   SAUDI ARABIA
   Al-Attiyah extends lead as Loeb takes Dakar 2023 Stage 4 win
   2 hours ago

Al-Attiyah extends lead as Loeb takes Dakar 2023 Stage 4 win

   SAUDI ARABIA
   Almubarak named ‘The Best Central Bank Governor of the Year 2023 for
   the Middle East’
   3 hours ago

Almubarak named ‘The Best Central Bank Governor of the Year 2023 for the
Middle East’

   SAUDI ARABIA
   Citizen rescues a child from floods in Madinah
   3 hours ago

Citizen rescues a child from floods in Madinah

   footer logo
   COPYRIGHT © 2023 WWW.SAUDIGAZETTE.COM.SA - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
   Powered by NewsPress
   NEWS CATEGORY
   saudi arabia world opinion business technology sports life
   COMPANY
   about us Epaper contact us Archive
   OTHER
   Epaper contact us Archive

   effectivemeasure alexametrics

   X
