   April 14, 2016 | Feminism

Why "Housewife" Should Not Be A Dirty Word

   As the daughter of a full-time mom, the word “housewife” elicits mixed
   feelings. On the one hand, as a Latina feminist, I am aware of how our
   patriarchal society governs women's roles and relegates them to
--
   that supports her household — and can't help but admire and appreciate
   her work ethic. I was offended and even a bit hurt, therefore, to learn
   that Dictionary.com defines "housewife" as a term that is “sometimes
   offensive."

   To be fair, this designation perhaps makes sense based on the
   relatively recent historical legacy established by the feminist
   movement of the 1960s and 1970s. Being a housewife was largely regarded
   by this movement as equitable to giving up one's power and, in a sense,
   being coerced into doing domestic work. Feminist leaders — like Betty
--
   this idea and proposed that women must reject domesticity by breaking
   professional barriers and claiming personal, sexual freedom. Rejecting
   the "housewife" role was part and parcel of this effort.

   The current, negative connotation of the term "housewife," therefore,
   is likely tied to this perception that domestic work was inherently
   oppressive. It's true that for decades many women had no choice but to
   be housewives and it makes sense that being perpetually confined to one
   role would make anyone hate any occupation, no matter it's nature.
   What's more, many women at the time likely did hate being housewives
   and wanted something else from life.

   But the idea that being a housewife is somehow less worthy of respect
   has carried on to our generation, despite the fact that many women do
   have other options now. Maintaining this belief therefore fails to take
   into account (and actively discredits) the women who genuinely enjoy
   housework. It also devalues all the work that does go into being a
   "housewife." According to a 2014 survey by Salary.com, for example, the
   average stay-at-home mom would have made $188,905 in 2014 including
   56.5 hours in overtime. Working moms, according to the same survey,
--
   outside the home.

   Clearly, being a housewife is not an easy job and deserves respect. Now
   that women have many opportunities available to them, being a housewife
   is often a choice rather than a role necessitated by coercion or a lack
   of other opportunities. An interest in domesticity shouldn't make a
