   tradwife 1950s family Long Reads

‘I want to submit to my husband like a 50s housewife’: inside the
controversial UK tradwife movement

--
   recipes to ‘using girlishness to get your way’.

   Hashtags #tradwife, #tradfem and #vintagehousewife regularly trend on
   social media as would-be tradwives congregate in Facebook groups with
   names such as Women of Traditional Values and Make Traditional
   Housewives Great Again. Many tradwives are also vintage homecraft
   enthusiasts, rejecting technologies such as TVs and microwaves in
   favour of cooking from scratch and a modest lifestyle, or as they call
--
   while she stays at home. It’s not an easy feat, she admits, when you’re
   app dating in the UK. “Men can be scared off when you tell them that
   you want to be a traditional housewife.” Jade now hopes to use online
   dating to meet a man in the US, where the #tradlife movement is more
   established.
--

     “Tradwife Facebook groups bristle with posts about women who’ve
     given up work to ‘spoil’ their husbands ‘like 50s housewives’”

   Christine is not alone in finding that an obsession with vintage
   fashion was a stepping stone to socially conservative attitudes towards
   gender roles. Tradwife Facebook groups bristle with posts about women
   who’ve given up work to ‘spoil’ their husbands ‘like 50s housewives’
   (“Oooh I would give up work to spoil my hub IN A HEARTBEAT,” reads a
   typical response on the forum Being A Vintage Housewife).

   Some 40s housewife enthusiasts take the lifestyle a step further and
   live the #HomeFront life, cooking from World War II rationing recipes
   and even retrofitting their homes to the 40s and 50s, ripping out
--
   classic (Jackie O; Audrey Hepburn); and romantic (the ruffles and bows
   of an early 80s Princess Diana).
   [housewife.jpg?w=1200&h=1&fit=max&auto=format%2Ccompress]
   housewife
   Tradwives: “For me the movement is about feminine self-improvement.”

--
   Life

How social media is creating a new ‘ideal housewife’ stereotype

   New research has shown a worrying trend.
