   #Daily Times » Feed Daily Times » Comments Feed Daily Times » Stigma of
   being a housewife Comments Feed alternate alternate

     * Skip to primary navigation
--
   Arts, Culture & Books

Stigma of being a housewife

   Fatima Dabeer
--

   With the revolutionary growth of feminism and woman coming out as bold
   and strong, the importance of housewives is deteriorating. Where all
   the women are talking about coming out of the comforts of their homes
   to compete with men in all fields of life, no one talks about the
   efforts of housewives. In the past, women were expected to stay home
   and run all the household errands, and those who wanted to work were
   often stigmatised. However, now in the modern world, it is the other
--
   The word has now got a negative connotation and is often associated
   with women who don’t want to work and would rather live off their
   partner. Most housewives are undervalued by their partners and by
   society at large. Across the world, women who stay home are now known
   to be old fashioned and an economic burden to the society. Their daily
--
   the areas of interior decorations, domestic spending and children’s
   clothes; all considered to be insignificant. Marjorie L Devault talks
   about the invisible work done by the housewives; how they are concerned
   about every family member’s food preferences, their health and
   organizing the family to come together. In all these they lose their
   own preferences, desire, luxury time and relaxing hours. Jean Duncombe
   in her study found out that majority of the housewives are playing a
   major part in holding their relationships together by doing the crucial
   and tiring emotional work. It puts an emotional strain on them but it
--

   Various celebrities and writers have presented their perspective on
   being a housewife. Annie Dillard says: “I’m a housewife: I spend far
   more time on housework than anything else.” Celine Dion claims: “I have
   become a housewife and there is no better job.” Tamara Braxton says: “I
   never want my kids to feel like I’m just some housewife, kicking it
   with my husband, because that’s not the kind of woman I am.” Martha
   Plimpton states: “I’m so sick of hearing how there’s no strong roles
   for women. I don’t care about strong roles. I just want to see women
   who are characters! A nun, a serial killer, a housewife, as long as
   there’s some depth there.”

   Our mothers, sisters and daughters, all those who are housewives act as
   a sponge to soak all the tensions and problems to create our homes a
   safe haven. It is wrong of us to look at the housewives as lazy,
   unaware of the social world and degrading them for the immense amount
   of work they perform from just the four walls of our homes. It is said
   that it is the duty of the man to maintain the financial stability of
   the house, in the same way men and children are dependent on the
   housewives for stability in domestic life, family bonding and mental
   peace. They should be equally credited as a woman doing a job outside
   the house. They deserve every ounce of acknowledgment.
