
   Home / Lifestyle / Health / World Mental Health Day 2022: Working woman
   vs housewife; is one more stressed than the other? Experts answer

   Read this news in brief form. Click here X

World Mental Health Day 2022: Working woman vs housewife; is one more
stressed than the other? Experts answer

--
   Updated on Oct 10, 2022 09:14 AM IST

World Mental Health Day 2022: Be it a working woman or a housewife, the daily
duties seem to be never-ending for females - from taking care of kitchen,
children, elderly to their individual goals.
--
   almost here and it is the perfect time to talk about mental health of
   women who often juggle with multiple responsibilities. Be it a working
   woman or a housewife, the daily duties seem to be never-ending for
   females - from taking care of kitchen, children, elderly to their
   individual goals. This puts them at an increased risk of depression,
--
   A survey conducted by Researchgate which saw participation of 80
   married women in the age ranging from 25-40 years, including 40 married
   working women and 40 housewives, noted that while working women
   experience financial independence, high self-esteem the house wife may
   experience insecurity and poor social life etc. The survey concluded
   that married working women and the housewives have their own set of
   issues which may cause difference in their quality of life. On the
   occasion of World Mental Health Day, we asked mental health experts
   about the unique challenges of working woman and a housewife and also
   if one is more stressed than the other.

--
   Psychiatry, Paras Hospitals, Gurugram.

What ails the mental health of a housewife

   "Housewives spend their entire time dedicated to routine chores but
   that is not the case with working women and hence they are good at
   grooming and taking care of themselves," says Dr Jiloha.
--
   allows women to make decisions, be independent and wake up to be
   confident every single day. None of these scenarios is met with a
   housewife and that somehow gives them time and space to welcome a
   plethora of negative thoughts. At work, you tend to be practical and
   take opinions about solving problems. But it is an upside-down episode
   when you stay at home. Society looks at a housewife’s chores as if it
   is her duty and why should there be rewards? No one appreciates it.
   Hence, there is a lot of dissatisfaction and anxiety. A working woman
   has no time to think of disappointments," says Dr Jiloha.

   "In various households, the housewives fell prey to the frustrations
   and aggression of their male counterparts. There is a perpetual burden
   of keeping the family tied up together along with bearing the financial
   issues and still keeping the family happy together by taking care of
   all the members of the family – husbands as well as the in-laws was a
   very challenging task for housewives. There is also a rising tension of
   sexual dissatisfaction between husband and wife. According to a
   research in this area, 70% Indian women do not have orgasm during
--

   Dr Kapoor says some of common triggers of mental health problems in
   housewives are episodes of depression and anxiety, marital
   dissatisfaction, domestic violence and patriarchal ideologies.

--
   and the burnout is excessive to drain her mentally," says Dr Jiloha.

   Working women vs housewives: who is more stressed?

   "Both have their own set of pros and cons but a working woman is more
--
   need to have a certain profession.

   "We cannot say that only working women or housewives are stressed.
   Stress can stem from anything or anybody around you," she says.

