   search-logo

What kind of woman are you: A housewife or a career woman?

Why do women leave their children and go to work? Some women decide to work
--

   February 12, 2015
   What kind of woman are you: A housewife or a career woman?
   Follow Saudigazette on Google News Account

--
   many ways. To begin with, having a working mother in the family will
   help the family financially. A working woman has her own career
   aspirations and her own set of responsibilities. But for a housewife,
   life starts and ends with her husband, children and her own family

   There are both advantages and disadvantages to being a working woman
   just as there are to being a housewife. Working women have to leave
   their children in the care of a housemaid or someone else. However, you
   cannot trust housemaids, as they cannot give the care which only a
   mother can give.

   I asked a few women about how they feel about being a housewife or a
   working woman in Saudi Arabia. Their opinions are as follows:

   Ayesha, an Indian housewife, said: “I am an educated housewife. After
   returning from school, my  children are very happy when they find me at
   home. They have so much to talk about.  A housewife can help her
   children with their homework, and who says that housewives are not
   contributing to the family financially? They save the cost of a
   housemaid and of private tuition as well. This is a major contribution.
--
   it is to leave your children at home and go to work. I sometimes wish I
   could stay home but that is not possible because I want to give my
   child a better life and a better education. Housewives also contribute
   a lot to their family. It’s not an easy task to sacrifice your career
   and stay home to cook and look after your children. I feel that working
--
   her husband and children 24 hours a day does not mean that a woman is
   the perfect mother.  A working woman understands the value of work.
   Unlike a housewife, she never blames her husband for being late from
   the office. Working women often find some fulfillment in their jobs,
   apart from home. Hence, they may have better life satisfaction and feel
--

   Jabida, an Indian, said: “I want to say that I disagree with the idea
   that housewives are less educated. I have worked when I needed to.
   Right now I can stay at home and I love it. I teach my daughter the
   alphabet, numbers, colors, shapes, etc. We go outside and do various
--
   does lead to fulfillment.  And with changing times, a lady can also
   work from home, part time, or with flexible hours.  So let her choose
   whether she wants to have a career or wants to be a housewife.”

   So to conclude, I would like to share the example of Hazrat Khadija
--

   A woman in Islam is given financial security. Many women still tend to
   be housewives in Saudi Arabia, while others want to work for their own
   reasons. I think both of these choices are acceptable. It depends on
   your own attitude toward life.
