   #alternate The Stigma of Being a Housewife

   (BUTTON)
--
   Today’s Paper

   Europe|The Stigma of Being a Housewife
   https://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/21/world/europe/21iht-LETTER.html
     * (BUTTON) Give this articleGive this articleGive this article
--
   The Female Factor

The Stigma of Being a Housewife

     * Send any friend a story
--

   STOCKHOLM — When the Swedish journalist Peter Letmark tried to track
   down a housewife for a series on 21st-century parents in the newspaper
   Dagens Nyheter recently, he failed.

   “Housewives,” he explained, “are a near-extinct species in Sweden. And
   the few who still do exist don’t really dare to go public with it.”

   In neighboring Norway, the Housewives’ Association changed its name to
   the Women and Family Association as its membership plummeted to 5,000
   from 60,000. “The reference to housewife was just too embarrassing,”
   said the feminist economist Charlotte Koren of the Norwegian Institute
   of Social Research, a former member and mother of two.

   When it is no longer socially acceptable to be a housewife — or
   homemaker, in modern American parlance — has feminism overshot its
   objective?
--
   under 3 are scarce. Yet in this generation of young mothers you are
   more likely to find women saying they are on extended maternity leave
   or between jobs than admitting they are housewives.

   Only among the wealthy is it seen as class status when the highly
--

   “It’s hard to find a balance between not romanticizing and not
   stigmatizing housewives,” said Nancy Folbre, a professor of economics
   at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. “Even though a number of
   women still stay at home, a cultural shift has put them on the
--
   social norms work: They put pressure on people to conform.”

   In Sweden the demise of the housewife is striking. Fathers share
   parental leave, kindergartens are heavily subsidized, and the universal
   breadwinner model is quite deeply entrenched — from the workplace to
--
   consultant at The Brand Union, a Swedish brand design company. From
   time to time international ads have to be re-dubbed to remove offensive
   mentions of a “housewife,” he said. Mr. Andersson and his colleagues
   focus on what he calls the “women short of time” segment.

--

   Jorun Lindell, a mother of three and the wife of a Swedish
   entrepreneur, tried being a housewife and could not make it work.
   “Sneered at,” she said, for her conviction that her children should
   have their mother at home, she learned that she also could not put them
--
   Some measures, like the home care allowance Sweden and Norway pay
   stay-at-home parents who opt out of the day care system, have often
   only reinforced the stigma attached to housewives: concerns that this
   allowance, popular with working-class and immigrant families, hampers
   social mobility by keeping children of poor and foreign backgrounds out
--

   A cheaper and possibly more effective way might be to finally and
   formally recognize the contribution housewives make to the economy,
   said Hélène Périvier, an economist at the Institut d’Études Politiques
   in Paris.

   “It’s not about being paid,” said Ms. Périvier, noting that the
   economic value housewives create remains within their home, “it’s about
   being valued.”

