Woman provokes debate by asking why people are so 'nasty' about stay-at-home
mothers - but others say it's 'common sense' to work and admit they'd be
'devastated' if their 'daughter became a housewife'

     * Debate sparked over why people criticise housewives and stay at
       home mums
     * An anonymous UK-based poster took to Mumsnet to ask for people's
--
   garner opinions on the divisive topic by sharing a post titled [Am I
   being unreasonable] to not understand the nastiness that being a
   housewife provokes.

   She wrote: 'Not just on Mumsnet. I don't even use Mumsnet that often
   but I see this on other social media websites too.

   'If a woman shares something positive about being a housewife it's full
   of comments about how "being controlled by a man, couldn't be me!" "No
   thanks, I love my independence" or "just wait until he leaves you, then
--

   'If a woman shares something negative about it its "see, this is why
   being a housewife is TERRIBLE" (yet no one would say "this is why
   having a career is terrible!" If a person was complaining about their
   job).
--
   the nastiness than the nasty posts themselves?'

   Another added: 'I have mainly been a SAHP/housewife for the last 25
   years and have never received any funny comments from people. My DH was
   fortunate to be able to retire at 55 and now neither of us work.'
--

   Several posters suggested that people criticise the idea of being a
   housewife or stay at home mother because they are jealous
   Several posters suggested that people criticise the idea of being a
   housewife or stay at home mother because they are jealous

   Several posters suggested that people criticise the idea of being a
   housewife or stay at home mother because they are jealous

   One wrote: 'I have no idea why people can be nasty about SAHMs and
   housewives either.

   'Theres probably lots of reasons. Maybe jealousy about not having the
--

   Another said: 'Apparently I'm both a terrible person and a victim for
   being a housewife/SAHM. I do everything for my husband including laying
   out his clothes in the morning and preparing all his meals. He rarely
   cooks or cleans but has a list of jobs I can't do that he does. But
--

   One admitted: 'I voted that you are not being unreasonable, but I would
   be devastated if my daughter wanted to be a housewife. Kids are young
   for such a short time and e benefit from socialization. In addition,
   work can be so satisfying and affirming. I was able to work part-time
--

   Read more:
     * To not understand the nastiness that being a housewife provokes |
       Mumsnet

Share or comment on this article:

Debate sparked over why people are 'nasty' to housewives

     *
--
       stuff boring' and it almost sent her 'over the edge'
     * The wife vowing to 'fight' alongside Martina Navratilova: Final
       Miss USSR Julia Lemigova turned Real Housewives of Miami star who
       will support the tennis pro through cancer
     * Newly single Katie Holmes dresses down for business meeting in
